# Cocke-Younger-Kasami algorithm

This repo contains 5 different implementations of the Cocke-Younger-Kasami (CYK/CKY) algorithm.
Three of the implementations takes any CNF grammar:

- A bottom up (BU) implementation, the traditional one.
- A top down (TD) recursive implementation using a memoization table.
- A naive recursive implementation identical to the TD version except
that it doesn't use the memoization table.

Two implementations take linear CNF grammars defined as all rules on the forms:

- N -> NT
- N -> TN
- N -> T

The languages generated by such grammars are regular, and the two implementations
are the following:

- A TD recursive implementation, the same as for tradiional CNF grammars,
but only splits strings by removing the leftmost or rightmost character.
- A naive recursive implementation, once again the same as the TD version
except that it has no memoization table.

## Time complexity

The BU and TD implementations for general CNF grammars both run in 
cubic time in the worst case.
The TD implementation runs in linear time in the best case.
The Naive version runs in linear time in the best case, 
and exponential time in the worst case.

**TODO:** analyze linear CNF algorithms

## Other implementations

A tool for generating random strings from CNF grammars is implemented.
It works by creating a table with a row for each non-terminal,
and a column for each string length.
The cells contain *true* iff the non-terminal can generate a string of
the specified length.
Then the possible choices are determined based on the production rules,
a random expansion is chosen and the substrings generated recursively.
